# A tree search heuristic for the resource constrained project scheduling problem with transfer times

This repository is maintained by Ying Liu (liuyingsme@smail.nju.edu.cn) and Qian Hu (huqian@nju.edu.cn) to supplement the article '"A tree search heuristic for the resource constrained project scheduling problem with transfer times" published at *European Journal of Operational Research*. It contains

- `rcpsptt_lowerbounds.xlsx`: the results of *the adapted critical path based lower bound* and *the adapted critical capacity lower bound*.
- `rcpsptt-ssgs.xlsx`: the results of serial schedule generation schemes (sSGS) presented by  Kadri & Boctor (d2018) and ours.
- `rcpsptt-treesearch.xlsx`: the results of our tree search heuristic.
- `sol.zip`: its contains the detailed results for every instance. It should be noted that we performed a topological sort of the precedence network and renumbered the activities according to the topological sort after reading the instances generated by Poppenborg & Knust (2016).

> Liu, Y., Zhou, J., Lim, A., & Hu, Q. (2023). A tree search heuristic for the resource constrained project scheduling problem with transfer times. *European Journal of Operational Research*, *304*(3), 939–951. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejor.2022.05.014

## Abstract

In this work, we study the resource constrained project scheduling problem with transfer times, where
the transfer of resources between activities takes a certain amount of time. For the problem, we propose an improved serial schedule generation scheme, a new lower bound, and a tree search heuristic. To generate a schedule, the improved serial schedule generation scheme iteratively schedules an activity by breaking some existing resource flows and decides the earliest start time in an efficient way. The new lower bound is adapted from the critical capacity lower bound by additionally considering resource transfer times. The tree search heuristic utilizes the improved serial schedule generation scheme to schedule an activity at its earliest start time and the new lower bound to prune unpromising nodes in the search tree. Several priority rules are introduced in the heuristic for the selection of the next activity during branching and also used in a greedy algorithm to compute an upper bound for node evaluation. Computational experiments on benchmark instances show that the improved serial schedule generation scheme reduces the computational time by 91.30% on average compared to an existing serial schedule generation scheme from literature, the new lower bound dominates the known adapted critical path lower bound and achieves an average improvement of 7.95%, and the tree search heuristic performs better than three
existing algorithms for the problem.

## Algorithm

Please contact the authors

## Instances

We used the instances proposed by Poppenborg & Knust (2016), which is available at http://www2.informatik.uni-osnabrueck.de/kombopt/data/rcpsp/ for downloading.

- the instances are classified into four sets, namely j30, j60, j90 and j120, with 30, 60, 90 and 120 non-dummy activities, respectively. Each for the first three contains 96 instances and the last one includes 120 instances.

## Results

Extensive computational experiments were conducted to evaluate the performance of the improved serial SGS, the new lower bound, and the tree search heuristic for the RCPSPTT. Our algorithms were implemented in Java and single-threaded. They were executed on a workstation with an Intel(R) Xeon(R) Platinum 8372HC CPU clocked at 3.40 GHz. 

When it comes to the results in the folder `sol.zip`, It should be noted that we performed a topological sort of the precedence network and renumbered the activities according to the topological sort after reading the instances generated by Poppenborg & Knust (2016). Therefore, the "activity id" in our solution files are not the activity number ( "jobnr." in the instance file) but changed according to the used typological ordering. Actually, we have also uploaded a file named "the typological sort.txt" to present the used topological ordering of all instances. You will find this file in the zip "sol.zip" as well. I believe you will easily match the activities in the instances and that in the solution files with the help of "the typological sort.txt". 

Let me take the instance "j3010_a" as an example to give a clearer illustration. According to the file "the typological sort.txt", we used the topological ordering [0, 1, 2, 3, 7, 12, 4, 8, 18, 5, 15, 10, 11, 16, 9, 17, 13, 26, 22, 6, 21, 23, 14, 19, 25, 24, 28, 20, 29, 27, 30, 31]. A topological sort of the precedence network is a linear ordering of all the activities such that an activity always appear before its successors in the ordering. According to the topological order, activity 7 is renamed as "4". Therefore, in the solution file "rcpsptt_sol_j30_10_a.json", the start time of activity "4" is actually is the start time of activity 7 in the instance file.

## References

Kadri, R. L., & Boctor, F. F. (2018). An efficient genetic algorithm to solve the resource-constrained project scheduling problem with transfer times: The single mode case. *European Journal of Operational Research*, *265*(2), 454–462. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejor.2017.07.027

Poppenborg, J., & Knust, S. (2016). A flow-based tabu search algorithm for the RCPSP with transfer times. *OR Spectrum*, *38*(2), 305–334. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00291-015-0402-2



